#summary Documentation Index
#labels Phase-Support,Featured

= Overview =

In its default configuration, cronwatch simply executes the specified command and handles any abnormal exit code or output by mailing it to the current user. The configuration options allow the user to control where that output is sent and what is considered "abnormal."

= Installation =

= Sample Usage =

cronwatch can be run from the command line to test that everything is set up correctly:
{{{
# cronwatch /bin/true
}}}

Some errors are severe enough to warrant an immediate error:
{{{
# cronwatch /bin/truely
ERROR: could not run /bin/truely: [Errno 2] No such file or directory
}}}

Typically, cronwatch will be executed from a crontab. You'll need to make sure that you either specify the correct PATH for cronwatch or that you use the full path name for cronwatch.
{{{
PATH=/usr/local/bin:/usr/bin:/bin
30 14 * * * cronwatch /bin/echo time for coffee
}}}

You can also specify a configuration file and tags from the command line. These concepts will be explained later.
{{{
30 14 * * * cronwatch -c /etc/cronwatch/coffee.conf -t coffee /bin/echo time for coffee
}}}

= Configuration =
Most of cronwatch's utility comes from the ability to configure how output and exit codes are handled.

== Configuration File Location ==
By default, cronwatch will check if /etc/cronwatch.conf exists, and if it does, use it as the configuration file. If this file does not exist, cronwatch will behave essentially as if it were cron (see the defaults below). In this scenario, it will handle any output or non-zero exit code as an error and send an e-mail to the user that called cronwatch.

If a file is specified on the command line with the -c option, then this file is used as the configuration file. If this file doesn't exist, cronwatch will fail with an error.

= Tags =

